README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected.svg?token=yyvS66phxJv6t5Zzsp8M&branch=master)](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected/badge.svg?branch=master&t=fjUaFR)](https://coveralls.io/r/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected?branch=master)

Hellbender Protected
====================

GATK4 development of the license-protected part of the toolkit

Requirements
------------
* Java 8

* Gradle 2.7

* HDF5 1.8.13 

* HDF5-Java JNI Libraries Release 2.9 (2.11 for Macs)


Read Hellbender's README
------------------------

Please refer to Hellbender's public repo readme file for general guidelines and how to set-up your development enviroment:

https://github.com/broadinstitute/hellbender/blob/master/README.md

Get HDF5-Java JNI Libraries Set-up
----------------------------------

There are two external libraries needed for HDF5 support in hellbender:

1. hdf -- native code only.
2. hdf-java -- includes both Java (JAR files) and native JNI code (.so/.dynlib files). 

*The Maven repository (org.hdfgroup:hdf-java:2.6.1) for the HDF5 IO library is out of date and should not be used.*

For more information about HDF:  https://www.hdfgroup.org/

#### Ubuntu (Linux) 12.10 and above (requires sudo)

*This may not work with versions of Ubuntu after 15.04.*

You simply need to install the hdfview package, which includes hdf and hdf-java:

```
   sudo apt-get install hdfview
```

This will install all of the required HDF5 libraries (hdf and hdf-java).  

By default:
- The jnilib native files will be installed at: ``/usr/lib/jni/``  This location can be used in the instructions below.
- The JAR files will be installed in ``/usr/share/java/``.
  
Developer note:

The gradle build will handle the Java dependency.  If IntelliJ is configured correctly, it will
  automatically create the dependency to the JARs in your project.


#### MacOSX (requires admin):

You simply need to install hdfview:

1. Download the binary (https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/hdf-java/current/bin/).  Select the darwin dmg file.
2. Install the binary.

This will install all of the required HDF5 libraries (hdf and hdf-java).

By default:
- The jnilib native files will be installed at: ``/Applications/HDFView.app/Contents//Resources/lib/``  This location can be used in the instructions below.
- The JAR files will be installed in ``/Applications/HDFView.app/Contents/Java/``.

#### Other from binaries

These limited and *mostly untested* instructions must be used when applications and libraries cannot be installed into default locations.

1. Download the hdfview binary from: https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/HDF-JAVA/hdf-java-2.9/hdfview/
2. Locate the jar files that were installed.  Use this location in the gradle build command in step 5.
3. Locate the JNI native files (.so/.dylib) that were installed.  Use this location in the instructions below. 
4. Rebuild the hellbender-protected.jar and provide the directory that contains jhdf.jar.

See example:

```
# Linux 64-bit example
HDF_DIR=/opt/hdf/
wget "https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/HDF-JAVA/hdf-java-2.9/hdfview/hdfview_install_linux64.bin" -O ${HDF5_DIR}/hdfview_install_linux64.bin
chmod +x ${HDF5_DIR}/hdfview_install_linux64.bin
${HDF5_DIR}/hdfview_install_linux64.bin

# Jar files will be in ${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib
# JNI lib files will be in ${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib/linux

# When calling gradle commands, you must add: -Pcustom.jar.dir=${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib
#  or put the jar location in your ~/.gradle/gradle.properties
#  custom.jar.dir=${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib

gradle -Pcustom.jar.dir=${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib build.gradle shadowJar
```

#### Travis CI (Ubuntu (Linux) 12.04 LTS)

``.travis.yml`` implements the installation from binaries as per instructions above.


### Get ```gradle test``` to work.

The VM will search for the JNI library in the path indicated by the ```java.library.path``` system property which
by default is set to the system "standard" library locations (e.g. /usr/lib will be included in most Unix flavors).

If you cannot or you don't want to install libjhdf5.jnilib in one of those standard locations and your VM's default ```java.library.path``` does not include your choice, 
you will need to tell explicitly to the build process where to look for it. 

Here you have a couple of options:

1. set the ```JAVA_LIBRARY_PATH``` environment variable to the value you want to set ```java.library.path``` to during testing,

2. or define the gradle project property ```testJavaLibraryPath=wherever-i-downloaded-the-jnilib``` in ```~/.gradle/gradle.properties```.

Please refrain from using gradle.properties in the root project directory for this as you don't 
want to share your set-up with other developers through the source repo; .gitignore should prevent this from happening for now
but is best to avoid it all together as in the future we might want to use gradle.properties for common set-up.

### Get ```java -jar hellbender.jar``` to work.

If you didn't need to indicate the location of ```libjhdf5.jnilib``` explicitly to get the testing working then you are all set.

Otherwise you will need to tell the VM each time as well like so:

```
java -Djava.library.path=wherever-i-downloaded-the-jnilib -jar hellbender-prorected.jar ...
```

Commit message:

Adding documentation for building and running HDF5 on a Broad VM.
Fixing typo

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected.svg?token=yyvS66phxJv6t5Zzsp8M&branch=master)](https://magnum.travis-ci.com/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected/badge.svg?branch=master&t=fjUaFR)](https://coveralls.io/r/broadinstitute/hellbender-protected?branch=master)

Hellbender Protected
====================

GATK4 development of the license-protected part of the toolkit

Requirements
------------
* Java 8

* Gradle 2.7

* HDF5 1.8.13 

* HDF5-Java JNI Libraries Release 2.9 (2.11 for Macs)


Read Hellbender's README
------------------------

Please refer to Hellbender's public repo readme file for general guidelines and how to set-up your development enviroment:

https://github.com/broadinstitute/hellbender/blob/master/README.md

Get HDF5-Java JNI Libraries Set-up
----------------------------------

There are two external libraries needed for HDF5 support in hellbender:

1. hdf -- native code only.
2. hdf-java -- includes both Java (JAR files) and native JNI code (.so/.dynlib files). 

*The Maven repository (org.hdfgroup:hdf-java:2.6.1) for the HDF5 IO library is out of date and should not be used.*

For more information about HDF:  https://www.hdfgroup.org/

#### Ubuntu (Linux) 12.10 and above (requires sudo)

*This may not work with versions of Ubuntu after 15.04.*

You simply need to install the hdfview package, which includes hdf and hdf-java:

```
   sudo apt-get install hdfview
```

This will install all of the required HDF5 libraries (hdf and hdf-java).  

By default:
- The jnilib native files will be installed at: ``/usr/lib/jni/``  This location can be used in the instructions below.
- The JAR files will be installed in ``/usr/share/java/``.
  
Developer note:

The gradle build will handle the Java dependency.  If IntelliJ is configured correctly, it will
  automatically create the dependency to the JARs in your project.


#### MacOSX (requires admin):

You simply need to install hdfview:

1. Download the binary (https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/hdf-java/current/bin/).  Select the darwin dmg file.
2. Install the binary.

This will install all of the required HDF5 libraries (hdf and hdf-java).

By default:
- The jnilib native files will be installed at: ``/Applications/HDFView.app/Contents//Resources/lib/``  This location can be used in the instructions below.
- The JAR files will be installed in ``/Applications/HDFView.app/Contents/Java/``.

#### Other from binaries

These limited and *mostly untested* instructions must be used when applications and libraries cannot be installed into default locations.

1. Download the hdfview binary from: https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/HDF-JAVA/hdf-java-2.9/hdfview/
2. Locate the jar files that were installed.  Use this location in the gradle build command in step 5.
3. Locate the JNI native files (.so/.dylib) that were installed.  Use this location in the instructions below. 
4. Rebuild the hellbender-protected.jar and provide the directory that contains jhdf.jar.

See example:

```
# Linux 64-bit example
HDF_DIR=/opt/hdf/
wget "https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/HDF-JAVA/hdf-java-2.9/hdfview/hdfview_install_linux64.bin" -O ${HDF5_DIR}/hdfview_install_linux64.bin
chmod +x ${HDF5_DIR}/hdfview_install_linux64.bin
${HDF5_DIR}/hdfview_install_linux64.bin

# Jar files will be in ${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib
# JNI lib files will be in ${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib/linux

# When calling gradle commands, you must add: -Pcustom.jar.dir=${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib
#  or put the jar location in your ~/.gradle/gradle.properties
#  custom.jar.dir=${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib

gradle -Pcustom.jar.dir=${HDF5_DIR}/HDFView/lib build.gradle shadowJar
```

#### Travis CI (Ubuntu (Linux) 12.04 LTS)

``.travis.yml`` implements the installation from binaries as per instructions above.


#### Broad VMs

Building on a Broad VM is similar to Ubuntu, except that you use a dotkit, instead of installing HDFview.

```
use .hdfview-2.9
```

- The jnilib native files will be in:  `` /broad/software/free/Linux/redhat_6_x86_64/pkgs/hdfview_2.9/HDFView/lib/linux/``
- The JAR files will be in: `` /broad/software/free/Linux/redhat_6_x86_64/pkgs/hdfview_2.9/HDFView/lib/``

The gradle build is already configured to search the JAR directory.

### Get ```gradle test``` to work.

The VM will search for the JNI library in the path indicated by the ```java.library.path``` system property which
by default is set to the system "standard" library locations (e.g. /usr/lib will be included in most Unix flavors).

If you cannot or you don't want to install libjhdf5.jnilib in one of those standard locations and your VM's default ```java.library.path``` does not include your choice, 
you will need to tell explicitly to the build process where to look for it. 

Here you have a couple of options:

1. set the ```JAVA_LIBRARY_PATH``` environment variable to the value you want to set ```java.library.path``` to during testing,

2. or define the gradle project property ```testJavaLibraryPath=wherever-i-downloaded-the-jnilib``` in ```~/.gradle/gradle.properties```.

Please refrain from using gradle.properties in the root project directory for this as you don't 
want to share your set-up with other developers through the source repo; .gitignore should prevent this from happening for now
but is best to avoid it all together as in the future we might want to use gradle.properties for common set-up.

### Get ```java -jar hellbender.jar``` to work.

If you didn't need to indicate the location of ```libjhdf5.jnilib``` explicitly to get the testing working then you are all set.

Otherwise you will need to tell the VM each time as well like so:

```
java -Djava.library.path=wherever-i-downloaded-the-jnilib -jar hellbender-protected.jar ...
```
